Java.
Email administration in this project, we are going to learn basic Java project focused on.
Object oriented design in real world application.
So this is email administration project where all the email details like creating mail, using firstname
and lastname, then giving the company department like related to that company department, then creating
some system generated password assigning to that particular email.
We are going to create your email administration project like that.
So in this project, we are going to learn some basic concepts of Java, object oriented design of Java,
then abstraction of Java, like how we can secure our password and everything like abstracted password.
Also, we are going to learn how we can execute or create some files in Java itself, like finagling
in the Java.
So after creating all the details like email, their password, first name, last name, we are going
to store that particular data or information in a text file.
So let's see how we can proceed with this project.
So first, we are going to learn or we are going to see our project in, so consider your own I.T. support
administrator, administrator or something like that.
Your post or what you are going to do is you have your task is creating email account for new hires
or new employees for that purpose.
You need first name and last name from the user.
Or we can say for the new employees.
So using that, you are going to create.
Email new email with another difference.
So steps of our development for this project is plus these projects set up, and we are going to set
up all things in this basic fundamental concepts in Java.
We are going to use Java code.
Basically, we're accessing classes, methods or all the abstractions of classes in Java.
Here we are going to see basic concepts, creating objects, classes, methods, file handling, Java.
Basically, we are going to create a one based file to file, and we are going to store all the data
in it, and we are going to retrieve that information until.
Creating single executions, I love John Lake in this project, we are going to create multiple classes
for the Java files, but after that we are compiling it in Buddha symbol executing Godfrey.
So this is our basic project on the steps of development.
We are going to use here.
So our application requirements, so we can see how we can proceed with our requirements.
First, we are going to need a one JDK.
I'm going to explain what you mean by JDK in Java.
And second, is it it basically integrated development environment for Java.
So there are multiple ideas in this field.
We are going to see how we can use that for our application.
First is.
Our basic thing is generating an email which index indexed like first name.
Last name, I get it department, we are going to provide dot company dot com.
So here, first name, last me, last name and department is given from the user or we can say new hire
from.
So for the terminals department, we are, I'm considering your sales development accounting year or
if none is given from the new employee, then that blank will be there in email.
Generate a random string for the password.
And so what is the third or aim of that application?
Applications should have some set of methods to change the password.
Then said the mailbox capacity, basically the mail capacity and the defined, the alternate email address
is also going from the user only, or we can send new higher.
It should have some great methods to display the name, email and the mailbox capacity when we are going
to bring that email address also.
And it should have some file handling methods, or we can see of file handling methods to store some
data in the file so it will store data and retrieved it also.
So this is our application requirements.
And here we are going to use JDK basically Java Development Kit and ID Integrated Development Environment
to do what's required.
So as I mentioned when we read some ID.
So for the Java development, I'm going to use your intel, Julia.
So we are going to use it for the Java development.
So in this project, we are going to build our whole project using this highly.
For the JDK or Java, we are going to use your Java ESI, which is standard edition 16 generation JDK
for the Java development.
So from these websites, you can download it and you can use it, utilize it.
So for this, you need to download as but you are the system requirements.
There are two versions of this IDE Ultimate and community.
You can download it.
And for Java, see, you have to download JDK here and are installed once you installed it.
It's it will automatically detect the path of that JDK.
So this is about all your tools really required.
So first, let us see more business in my guide, JVM and JDK.
So just you downloaded the Java Sea Virgin starting early edition Virgin 16 you downloaded is basically
Jellicle.
So did you get contents and JVM?
So JVM is the smallest part of duty.
So JVM is the Java virtual machine, as the name suggests.
No, physically, it's not physically exist on your system, it's what your machine.
But its main aim is, or a main function is, which provides the runtime environment in which Java bytecode
executes.
So what do you mean by bytecode is basically you are creating some Java syntax or its higher level language
you are writing, but the machine knows the lower level language one zero one zero machine level language.
So it converts that bytecode and executes that by.
It also runs programs in other languages, but compiled in Java.
So basically, if you created some other languages, I mean by Kotlin, awesome, they these are the
supports, these supports of the Java amongst some.
So what is the main functions of JVM is its laws, the code, it's the replace, the code, it executes
the code and each provides the right environment.
Second parties, jihadi.
Java runtime environment.
What is the Jrt is it is a set of tools library and some data files Java Archive files.
It's used in the Java applications programs that we are going to create, and it provides the implementation
of JVM, it physically exists in JDK as its runtime environment is just a set of programs protocols
in.
JDK Java Development Kit.
It contains Jrt, JVM, Java compiler, Java and were just basically different versions.
All the related files and everything it contains.
And let's see what is the structure of that.
It's look like JVM Jihadi and dude.
So Jessica is the superclass, or we can say all the union class of jihadi and JVM.
So do you?
Avium is the smallest part Java virtual machine, then Java runtime environment contains some set of
libraries.
Java is some other.
Also, it contains and it contains JVM also.
So this creates Jrt, and this is a development which contains Java files.
Java compiler files, Java files and Jihadi JVM, all mixed and JDK.
So just we downloaded the JDK.
It contains the Java imagery and everything.
It will execute our Java file and it will alert design what we are going to proceed with.
So this is the basic consensus of guilty JVM and Jodi.
Now we will see how we can set up our environment or our project for our application email administration
application.
Once you install our ID and the easy idea, you can see this welcome screen.
Before that, I already installed in my system.
So before that, you should say some configuration like foreign based everything.
So once this is done, you can see the screen.
So here I am, going to create a new project here new project.
So it will take time to create a new project.
So once a new project I'm going to create here or once this screen is loaded.
Or you have to specify your duty.
All we can say here is decay, so it will automatically detect you.
It is.
Yeah, I'm using.
16 version of Jodi Get, so I'm choosing this.
No need to install any additional libraries like groovy or cold linear or no need to specify some use.
Do you find libraries also?
Just click the next.
Or don't take this.
It will create some default template.
We don't want to create some default template here.
Create next before that, give the project name and project location.
So for this, I'm going to specify the project name as.
E!
Mail application.
You can specify a universal project name.
I'm going to specify email application.
Click the finish.
It will take time to create indexing and everything, but it will once it slow, it will show the screen
also.
So wait for creating a new project.
It will take time.
Wait for it.
It's showing the loading here, you can see.
So wait for that.
Scanning and indexing everything, it will automatically create all the folders related to our project.
So now we are done with our set up, so we specified the JDK.
Then we created our new project.
Now you can see this is our project email application.
And you can see all the related to find.
That is got idea, then it's pretty easy to see for the main folder we are going to create here all
the applications here.
Then this is I am in file and all the external libraries and everything.
So this is the only Java files we are going to use.
So this is not at all required to see and this is mean if we are going to.
So we are done with our setup.
Now we will see how we can proceed with our project.
So once all this is done and all things are indexed and loaded.
Now what you are going to do is.
Click this on SIRC right here.
It will take time to load.
So just slightly here.
It will do all the options related to this.
Click on New.
You can see every option, what we can make in this.
So what we needed, we needed create some java for it, so we need to clear Java class.
But before that, what I'm going to do is I'm creating this Java classes we are going to proceed with
in some package.
What do you mean by packaging Java is I'm going to store that specific classes in some files.
So this is a very basic project in further projects.
We are going to create some large projects in that part.
We need to create some different packages like in the industry, also ones for the small, small requirements.
We can create small small packages.
So once packaging is done.
Specify the name, you can see the package.
So I want the name as email here for that package.
It will create some simple folder for dark glasses.
Now to this email app, right click on that.
And here I am going to create a glass.
What are these?
We need to create two classes.
So what is the requirement of creating two classes with us?
So in one class, we are going to create Minmetals, which is basically executing method and in another
Java file or class.
We are going to create.
Or we are going this based fact all over the method.
So first, let's see, there could be a third part or we can see what we are going to specify in that
part.
Let's see in that.
So first, I'm going to create a Java class, and in this, so I'll specify a name for this Java class
as email.
I'm going to give us e-mail.
Once it is, then it will.
Note that Glass.
So as you can see, it will load this glass on us.
With some default structure.
Let us see what is this structure for us?
You can hide this part also here.
I'm going to leave this and let's see what it is, basically structures.
This is package name email that we created under this, and this is our class.
So we are done with the primary setup of this lake public class mail.
This is the class syntax blizzard.
We will in the folder this, we are going to see how we can proceed with a letter.
What do you mean by class methods?
Everything.
And we can proceed with our project in this.